=== Content from crushftp.com_f4faba2b_20250124_231347.html ===

Version 10.0.0
# YOU ARE VULNERABLE IF YOU DON'T UPGRADE! Minimum safe version is 10.5.1.

<https://www.crushftp.com/crush9wiki/Wiki.jsp?page=CrushFTPUpgrade>

## [What's New?](http://www.crushftp.com/crush8wiki/Wiki.jsp?page=CrushFTP8New)

## CrushFTP 8.3.3 has been released!

Overall 8.3.3 has security patches and updates internal libraries for
PGP and SFTP. v8 is end of life as of October, 2020.

[CrushFTP](http://www.crushftp.com/) 8.2.1 - 12/13/2017

**New:**

\_0:released

\_2:improved testURL command to handle more VFS property items

\_5:changes mime\_type in S3 when renaming file extension

\_14:speed improvements for job monitor handling, added POSIX config for VFS
items

\_15:added search\_file\_contents\_also for literal grepping

\_16:added ServerBeat change alert type to provide notifications if VIP fails
over

\_17:added multi\_journal\_timeout to control how fast VFS replication times
out

\_21:creating shares when you have a quota set propagates the quota config to
the shares

\_23:improved S3 speed for getting item info

\_24:improved S3 speed with caching of stat calls to lookup item info

\_26:major improvements in S3 caching when going through DMZ

\_29:added support for custom VFS clients

\_31:added support for change password through DMZ mode

\_32:reduced dir listing object size for large directories in WebInterface

\_40:added ability to load mime types for email attachments in email task

\_42:PGP in stream can decide if file is encrypted or not before handling

\_43:higher priority for DMZ queue threads

\_48:added additional JOB\_SCHEDULER logging category

\_52:added setting for max\_http\_header\_length to allow adjusting from default
2000

\_53:added max upload count for http sessions

\_54:added password\_reset\_message\_browser\_bad for ambiguity

\_56:speed improvements for FindCache and Find task when handling lots of
files and excluding items

\_73:SAML can now handle the name id format to use custom domains to be
ignored, or custom attributes to use as the username

\_74:allow VFS clients to block uploads, and WebInterface login page shows
cookie acknowledgement banner.

\_76:added s3 header for CrushFTP on uploaded-by

**Fixes:**

\_1:fix for linked VFS's not in sync

\_3:fix for s3 recursive directory creation

\_4:fix for URL parsing

\_6:fix for downloading empty files over FTPS

\_7:fix for multi domain uploading through load balancer

\_8:fix for lost serverside encryption header on S3

\_9:added CrushSSO plugin for enterprise users

\_10:fix for folder downloads forgetting filename

\_11:fix for space in filenames on newer S3 regions

\_12:fix for testing OTP configuration, s3-accelerate on AWSv4, and new job
scheduling

\_13:fix for DMZ SSH public key lookup with @AutoDomain

\_18:fix for searching file contents if search\_file\_contents\_also is true

\_19:fix for SSH key lookup from DMZ, and bug with shares created on a remote
VFS item

\_20:fix for report showing full urls

\_21:fix for not match pattern on windows with backslashes for folder
monitor

\_22:fix for GDrive protocol's missing steps to activate

\_25:fix for sftp port not starting in \_24

\_27:fix for s3 lookups on deleted folders

\_28:fix for mainframe HTTP clients and not authenticating

\_30:fix for infinite loop scenario deleting s3 item

\_31:fix for special case VFS listing bug

\_32:fix for hadoop verbose logging

\_33:fix for more hadoop verbose logging

\_34:fix for TempAccounts and incorrect displayed buttons through DMZ

\_35:fix for corrupted web uploads being too big

\_36:fix for WebInterface uploads timing out.

\_37:fix for expired password change through DMZ

\_38:fix for AS2 through DMZ

\_39:fix for password change requirements not coming across correctly

\_41:updated SFTP client library to fix initial key negotiation with some
servers

\_42:DMZ ping/pong tests no longer get slowed by network traffic

\_44:fix for Move task that attempted a rename

\_45:fix for uploading tiny files getting stuck with HTML5 mode

\_46:fix for transferring files less than 38 bytes long getting garbage

\_47:fix for not all DMZ logging data being sent to internal when enabled

\_48:fix for SFTP outbound host key signature mis-calculated lengths

\_49:fix for multiple SFTP ports causing configuration overlap and failure at
server startup

\_50 fix for uploaded\_md5 tag on s3 items

\_51:fix for small PGP file encryption with hinted size, and copy/move task
not operating properly

\_54:fix for FTP listing of a Windows server pretending to be Unix like

\_55:fix for SQL users and blank event configurations

\_56:added flag to disable PGP checking since some remote connections may not
allow it (pgp on the fly):pgp\_check\_downloads

\_57:fix for OTP timing of token

\_58:fix for ssh key auth introduced by prior build \_57

\_59:fix for URL variables not being updated when creating directories at
login

\_60:fix for aggressive HTML5 retry logic, added low memory alert, and
partial hour timezone offset.

\_61:fix for Tunnel not detecting dead network connection correctly and
remaining active, and a fix for S3Crush references with spaces

\_62:don't make unneeded history job folders if its turned off

\_63:HTML5 upload chunk validation for browsers that don't work correctly
(Safari fails to send all chunk data at times).

\_64:fixed bug with setting modified time on new files with SMB3 and
overwriting files with SMB3

\_65:fix for unneeded cookies be assigned on session logout

\_66:fix for manual user.XML password modifications

\_67:fix for multi-domain chunk issues on uploads

\_68:fix for hadoop subfolder listings and uploads

\_69:fix for uploads to s3 taking long time to close

\_70:fix for MDTM and s3 files being slow

\_71:fix for DMZ connection not detecting failed connections to internal
server (backend storage unavailable)

\_72:fix for zip task not preserving item's modified date

\_73:fix for passwords with : in them, and DMZ SFTP disconnects notify
internal server properly now

\_75:fix for java service install on windows

\_77:fix for proxy protocol v1 for F5 and Amazon ELB

[CrushFTP](http://www.crushftp.com/) 8.2.0 - 08/28/2017

**New:**

\_0:released

\_5:added support for Amazon KMS keys for S3, haddop support for failover
URLs, s3 multithreaded downloading

\_10:updated PGP libraries to current

\_12:previously generated reports can be viewed through the DMZ

\_13:added replication for saved HTML reports

\_14:allow controlling all kex for SFTP now

\_15:added CrushDuo authentication plugin

\_18:added support for DMZ only working with current internal ServerBeat
master

\_20:fix for CrushClient scheduled scripting mode leaving tabs behind, and
encryption to Copy/Move tasks

\_22:added explicit log message when a user's password is changed by server
admin or user

\_24:adds auditability in better detail of exactly what setting changes in
logs

\_25:allows ssh public key files to be placed on remote servers

\_27:allows sending DMZ log messages to central internal server

\_28:active job transfers now show on the server admin dashboard too

\_30:added user log info to jobs triggered by a user action

\_30:session logs are now stored in separate folders to avoid file system
issues

\_30:added scaled retry delay for CrushTask retries

\_30:added support to retry a failed job

\_32:Added support for handling connections as a SMB proxy

\_33:added log messages for PGP on the fly actions and more verbose URL
logging in all job tasks

\_34:added test PGP button, and easier windows service install with memory
and run as user config.

\_35:added admin IP restrictions for who can do administration on the
server

\_37:added min DH prime size for SFTP, and recaptcha on a per user basis in
the User Manager

\_41:added flag for controlling DMZ messaging mode using notify/wait or
sleep.

\_43:faster UI loading in User Manager and Preferences

**Fixes:**

\_1:fix for smtp with server's not supporting sasl

\_2:fix for s3 and AWS4 regions with files with spaces

\_3:fixes for canceling WebInterface uploads

\_4:fix for SMB:// home folder URLs in LDAP

\_6:fix for x-amz-security-token on S3 v4 auth

\_7:fix for FTPS ports and proxy protocol v1

\_8:fix for CrushClient UI bug leaving behind tabs

\_9:fix for WFTPD FTP server errors

\_11:fix for password only auth without keyboard interactive for SFTP

\_16:fix for Web uploads when dealing with a slow disk

\_17:fix for DMZ race condition on uploads

\_19:faster DMZ file uploads of small files

\_20:fix for Wait task waiting on prior threads to finish

\_21:fix for random salt generation with automated user creation

\_23:fix for CrushFTPDrive on OSX, and HomeDirectory folder creation
replication

\_26:fix for resetting server stats on dashboard

\_27:fix for bad DMZ logins triggering excessive retries

\_29:fix for logging bug blocking startup in some cases

\_31:fix for foldermonitor triggered crushtasks

\_35:fix for job scheduling bug for last day of the week

\_36:fix for zip download

\_37:fix for SFTP min/max DH key size, and Azure fix for subfolders

\_38:fix for PGP logging in CrushFTP log and job logs

\_39:fix for HTTP proxy mode with old proxy servers

\_40:fix for sharing some items not functioning

\_42:fix for duplicated dir items in merged VFS listings

\_44:fixed flag always enabling v8worker flag on DMZ mode

\_45:fix for serialization bug, http header issue, redirect bug, and xss
issues.

[CrushFTP](http://www.crushftp.com/) 8.1.0 - 04/11/2017

**New:**
\_0:released

\_3:faster s3 VFS item access

\_10:logging improvements for debugging failed chunked uploading

\_11:added connection pooling support to CrushTask jobs Move/Copy

\_15:added debug logging for job timing

\_18:added singleuser maintenance mode and password rules per user basis

\_20:preliminary support for scheduled reports

\_22:added support for user manager rollback of prior user saves

\_28:added restore user function to User Manager

\_31:changed how SSH forwarding rules apply

\_37:CSV format of report can be emailed

\_38:SSH DH Prime size can be downgraded if needed and added Azure protocol
support

\_39:added ability to allow root level invisible item passing one level deep,
but not further

\_40:added ability to disallow view and yet override it on a per folder or
file basis

\_43:when IP is banned, terminate all connected session from that IP

\_49:security improvements in XML handling

**Fixes:**
8.0.4\_0:fix for corrupted uploads in HTML5 mode in some scenarios

8.0.3\_0:fix for SFTP session memory leak

8.0.3\_1:fix for SFTP session count issue for bad sessions

8.0.4

\_1:fix for not validating file size at the end of HTML5 upload

\_2:fix for HTML5 closeFile out of sync looping

\_4:fix for Previews being attempted on files in progress

\_5:fix for overwrite failures when using temp upload filenames and a HTML5
failed transfer

\_6:fix for v8\_beta flag causing issues from CrushFTP v7 upgrades

\_7:fix for s3 caching bug

\_8:fix for HTML5 uploads on unstable networks

\_9:fix for replicating 0 byte files

\_12:fix for FTP client in Jobs config failing after one file transfer.

\_13:html5 upload fix for troubled network connections.

\_14:fix for quota lookup from DMZ

\_15:fixes for HTML5 and poor network conditions

\_16:fix for HTML5 debug issue

\_17:fix for reported size on HTML5 resumed uploads and SSO header
authentication

\_19:fix for file size on HTML5 uploads

\_21:fix for deleting expired template accounts

\_23:fix for job scheduler saves making schedule run for next day

\_24:fix for stopped server restarting on save

\_25:fix for UsersList task and exclusion of groups.

\_26:fix for zip64 and DMZ linked VFS permissions loss

\_27:fix for ssh port forwarding bug

\_28:fix for nested jobs when targeted with an event

\_29:fix for DMZ permission paths

\_30:fix for phantom DMZ permission entries

\_31:fix for DMZ permissions, and fix for signed jars like CrushSync not
starting

\_32:fix for SFTP user timeout not always being honored

\_33:fixed upload error on HTML5 uploader

\_34:fixed idle http session handling

\_35:fix for duplicate zip paths in multiple merged VFS

\_36:fix for FileParser CrushTask and quoted CSV files

\_41:fix for replication and subitems when doing a make directory

\_42:fix for view permission being removed on a directory and the directory
disappearing form the list

\_44:fix for auto stopping DMZ ports when internal server is down

\_45:rolled back LDAP change causing login failures

\_46:fix for LDAP when referencing LDAP keys that don't exist

\_47:fix for multithreaded dir listings and sftp dates when proxying data

\_48:fix for s3 sharing of empty folders and msg for alerts, and pass
expiration with sftp

[CrushFTP](http://www.crushftp.com/) 8.0.4 - 12/03/2016

**Fixes:**
\_0:fix for HTML5 uploads

[CrushFTP](http://www.crushftp.com/) 8.0.3 - 11/30/2016

**New:**

\_3:Updated SFTP libraries to latest version

\_5:added support for hack username patterns

\_6:added ability to email on change of email, or password change

**Fixes:**
8.0.2: fix for upload bug

\_1:fix for working behind a reverse proxy and upload fixes

\_2:fix for proxy errors

\_4:fix for viewing some logs with bad data

\_5:fix for folder monitor finds

\_6:fix for download on the fly pgp decryption

\_7:fixes for new HTML5 uploader, UI, tiny files, resume, error recovery

\_8:fix for missing form items in uploads for events

\_9:fix for SFTP sessions not being cleared out on close

\_10:fix for username reset password token lookup

\_11:fix for renaming in a dir without view access

\_12:fix for new users in the user manager with custom emailing forms

\_13:fix for job monitor role being able to see older prior run versions of
the job.

\_14:fix for leaving session references in SFTP

\_15:fix for admin action trying to delete non existing item

\_16:fix for SFTP sessions leaking and causing out of memory errors

[CrushFTP](http://www.crushftp.com/) 8.0.2 - 10/25/2016

**New:**

- HTML5 based upload system with 4x faster upload speeds, resume support,
and auto retry.

- Federating servers...multiple servers linked into one Linked Servers,
managed and monitored from the master server.

- Limited Server allows for a server to run with restricted filesystem
access for "user data" and "server config" areas.

- Server memory can be set from the dashboard now

- User data can now be replicated to another server via a journaled
replication system

- Recycle bin now resets the date for easier time based cleanup

- UI improvements to CrushSync systray/menu item for quick access

- updated SFTP libraries for more modern ciphers and architecture

- updated threading model for higher performance connection handling

- GoogleDrive for VFS data storage is supported now

- copy task items between jobs

- Job monitoring by user or group support

- support for job organization in job groups

- Dropped old plugins: PostBack,LaunchProcess,AutoUnzip. CrushTask replaces
all of them.

- updated reports UI, more enhancements coming

- CrushClient local agent is a new tool which now has an advanced
CrushClientUI

- improved slideshow playback for large folders with thousands of images

- support for password based encryption in PGP files instead of key based

- allow editing SSH port setting changes without disconnecting current users

- supports the proxy protocol v1 header for servers behind load balancers
that want to know the user's true IP

- allows for changing speed limits on the fly for existing connections

- files can now be locked, unlocked for more of a content management system

- allows an end user the ability to download a prior revision of a file that
has been replaced

- reports can be run at hourly intervals

- IPv6 support for IP banning and limiting connections for ports or users

- Ability to delegate a Linked Job out to a CrushClient running as an agent
in managed mode.

- jQuery library updates

- Telnet debug utility available on all admin areas

- Previewing a video file can play a lower resolution pre-generated file
instead of the full version.

